@document.meta
title: Configuration Notes
description: Personal Notes on how to create the best Neovim configuration for me.
author: Stylianos Zappidis (SpikeCifer)
@end

A collection of various Neovim frameworks. My goal is to write down what I 
like and what I don't like about each one of them so that I can build my own 
*amazing* thing.

* My Choices
** Thinks I want
   - LSP for: C, Rust, Zig, Vim, Java, JavaScript, Typescript, Python, Go
   - Treesitter for: Better text objects (e.g, go to next function/method)
   - A configurable formatter that performs on save (and is lazy loaded)
   - Git integration (Have to do some work on this)
   - Bracket Matching
 
** Things I can't decide on
   - Autopairs (One the one hand they are not really helpful when using the dot command, on the other your
you don't have to go searching for a missed bracket.).

** Things I don't want
   - Additional navigation keybinds that move away from the defaults (Do not alter perfection).
   - Autowrite, just be responsible.

** Specific plugins
   - hardtime: Tells me how shitty I am in using vim
   - gitblame: Lazy loaded, shows author of latest changes
   - gitsigns: +,-,green lines etc..
   - Neodev: Better nvim development
   - toogleterm: Better terminal manipulation
   - nvim-dap: The standard neovim debugger
   - neotest: A test framework
   - NvimTree: A lazy loaded file explorer.
   - Neorg for handling notes and better markdown features.

** Good Ideas
   - Using the alt key for a whole set of keymaps.
   - Autocomands is a cool idea
   - <A-j/k> For moving lines up/down.
   - A way to choose between window layouts.
   - Peek into a function implementation?

* LazyVim
** Things I like:
   ~ The dynamic coloring of indentation lines.
   ~ The notifications menu (as long as it does not impend performance).
   ~ The splash screen (New file, Restore Session, Config, Quit)
   ~ <A-j/k> To move lines down/up.
   ~ Setting Default Window Layouts.
   ~ An optional file explorer that gets loaded lazily (only when toogled)
** Things I dislike:
   ~ The fact that you can not configure the default plugins (Actually you can, 
     but it easily crashes down)
   ~ The whole tabs thing. Don't open new tabs every time I click on a new file.
   ~ All of the keymaps (Like hell man, why would you force your keybinds on another person).
   ~ The cmdline (Let it be where it belongs; at the bottom of the page, not floating).
   ~ Autowrite is not for me.
   ~ Jumping around with additional plugins might seem like a good idea, 
     until you have to use a remote tool and realize you have forgotten 
     the vanilla keys.

* TODO:
  ( ) Learn how to configure the lua line.
  ( ) Learn how to use the lazy plugin manager.
  ( ) Learn about other IDE features and consider adding them. 
  ( ) UFO folding: Don't show numbers, just the classic > ⌄
